hey you guys what's up welcome back to
the small lettuce youtube channel
my name is april whitney and i am
addicted
to sugar just kidding but not really i
actually
had a relapse recently which is why i'm
making this video
this video is going to be all about
sugar addiction
cravings how they start how to get rid
of them we're
going to talk about a little about the
science i'm also just going to share
with you guys what happened with me
recently
and how i am getting rid of these
cravings and getting back on track
and that sound is just me playing with
his little
spinny ball toy so if you hear it it's
my cat playing in the background okay
you guys please give this
video a like and subscribe and let's get
into it
okay if you guys have been following
this channel for a while you know that
i'm all about healthy living
sustainable living so at no point in my
life when i say i was a hundred percent
sugar-free cut out all sugars at some
points probably refined sugars were
very very once in a while for example
like
cereals desserts that type of thing i
really try to only have
once in a while once a week maybe so
most of my life the last
five six seven years has been a whole
foods diet
not dieting but you know what i mean my
nutrition um
not eating a lot of refined sugars or
processed foods in general
um i'm so distracted by sesame i think i
need to move his toy one second this is
the toy
oh he's gone this was the toy he was
playing with so where he never plays
with
with this toy and then of course i fell
in youtube videos like let me play with
this toy
so i want to tell you guys a little bit
about my history with sugar
how i got off it a long time ago and
then also how i relapsed recently
so if you knew me in college i'm 28
years old now so this was a long time
ago
i was a serial queen
like you guys i could eat an entire box
of kashi heart to heart
in like the from the drive from the
grocery store back home the box would be
gone i
i was addicted to cereal in specifics
cereal was like
my go-to for that sugar hit
college was also around that time when i
was drinking more alcohol
um doing diets doing juice cleanses
trying to find quick ways to lose weight
and
you know trying to trying to do all the
quick fixes there were
so i would have episodes of of binge
eating
not uh in terms of it wasn't clinically
diagnosed or anything but
episodes where i'd eat a ton a ton of
food usually cereal that was like my
go-to it's just so easy to snack on
and i was definitely addicted to that
high that you get from sugar that good
feeling that
just it's just that dopamine hit kind of
like
it's addictive it's really addictive and
over the years you guys have watched
through this youtube channel and
all along the journey i have transferred
over to having a much more
balanced pff diet what i call protein
fats and
fibrous carbs so i'm not eating as many
processed sugars i'm not eating
um desserts every night i could if i
wanted and there are some times where i
make my own healthy desserts and i'll
you know fake it into my macros but
i'm not going and buying those like
classic processed sugars refined sugars
that
you might find in the grocery stores you
know basically all the aisles
of course you guys know i do not preach
a restrictive diet of any kind i would
still order dessert out at a restaurant
we actually ordered dessert last night
from this amazing bakery down the street
i had a creme brulee
and i had a party cookie so i do
sometimes well right now i'm also
i'm addicted to sugar at the moment but
i will do that from time to time and i
don't advocate for 100 cutting all
good things out of your life it's really
just becoming aware of when they're
hurting you and not helping you
and then making the adjustments you need
to get back on track
okay so for many years i had no problem
with sugar like i mean no problem i
don't i never fell back into that
cereal habit or you know binging like
crazy
that was pretty much gone until recently
okay so let me tell you how it started
this is the culprit and
it's right here so if you guys haven't
heard of a magic spoon
it's this cereal right here and when i
first heard about it i was like oh my
goodness
could i have cereal again
could i let it back into my life and
the answer is no but i did buy this box
of cereal because if you guys haven't
heard
magic spoon is one of those newer
healthier alternative cereals that
preaches you know it's kind of like a
keto
cereal or it's just higher fat lower
carb and
it's there's a lot of refined sugars in
it
they always say three grams of net carbs
which is a sneaky way of saying
there's hidden carbs in the form of
fiber which is good
but mostly allelos i'm pretty sure in
this one
so it's not exactly carb free there's
actually 10 grams of carbs in a serving
but you'll see they'll try to trick you
in marketing so just watch out for this
you'll see like
three grams of net carbs check the
nutrition label because they'll show you
how many real
actual carbs are in it but in general i
this was a really balanced
cereal most cereals do not have macros
like this this has
4.5 grams of fat 10 grams of carbs and
11 grams of protein that's
that's a very high amount of protein in
a in a cereal most cereals
are higher carb almost no protein
very little fats and they're not healthy
fats so
i bought this thinking okay it's a
protein cereal
maybe i can reintroduce cereal back into
my diet
and you guys it started off pretty good
i was having a bowl you know after my
workouts
it was feeling good it was not
uh i was not getting crazy cravings yet
and then after about a week it just took
a turn for the worse
i decided that this particular cereal
was
a little bit too high in fats and a
little bit
uh just not enough carbs for what i was
using it for and i was using it for a
pre and a post workout meal
10 grams of carbs is not enough carbs to
fuel
yourself for a workout or to restore
your your glycogen
after a workout and start the muscle
repair process so i thought okay i need
something
if i'm going to do this i need to have a
probably more traditional cereal and you
guys
that led me back into the cereal aisle
of the
grocery store which i have not been in
really
in a long time it's just not a good
place for me to be
so one day i came home with this
bad boy this is kashi very
crumble and let me tell you guys this is
so good it is so good and so bad at the
same time
and i don't like to use the words good
and bad in food because you can have
everything in moderation the problem is
i was not eating this in moderation so i
switched over to this
started using it as my post-workout meal
because
it has enough carbs it has 31 grams and
a serving that's much better
and i was mixing it with milk and i was
adding a protein powder to my milk to
make
sure that the meal had enough protein in
it so it was a protein cereal
i was like this is amazing i'm eating
cereal again
i can't believe my body's handling these
sugars so well i'm not having side
effects like i'm feeling really
good and then it went downhill so
what happened over the next week
so that was the first seven days next
seven days i started to get
hungrier and hungrier slowly i got more
cravings for it
i was thinking about this cereal like
all day you guys i know it sounds
funny and it's even funnier if you knew
me back then because i was always eating
cereal
but i just kept craving it more and more
every day and if you guys have
ever had a sugar addiction almost
everyone has you'll know
it's like suddenly you're just always
craving sugar like
you're not eating meals anymore you're
just like picking up a sugary bar
or like eating a cereal or eating a
cereal eating a bowl of cereal or having
you know you're just craving that like
sweet hit
and i noticed it starting to happen
especially when i would go to the
kitchen and actually like
have to stop myself from just like open
eating out of the box which is something
i i don't do anymore so i started to
notice that behavior
that desire started to creep up and the
tail
end of this sugar addiction which was
the worst part
headaches every day um
and i did have some weight fluctuations
however
it could have been my period as well so
i can't
rule that out but i had some a few
pounds of weight gain that could have
been
from overeating not due to the sugar
let's actually talk about that
not actually due to eating the sugar but
due to
increased cravings which led me to
overeating over the course of seven days
because there is a misconception that
sugars make you fat they do not you need
sugars you need carbs
but if you're eating so much refined
sugar that you start having cravings and
then you start eating more
then your body can burn off or more than
your body needs
that's what will lead to weight gain in
the long run i think that's an important
um important thing to distinguish
between so i had
mild stomach aches which for me
stomachache is always a sign that my
nutrition
nutrition is off i had crazy headaches
like it felt like i was constantly
dehydrated or like going through
withdrawal
like when i wasn't eating cereal i was i
was having a headache
and that just felt like crap to me i
started to feel it started to feel it
ignored it i was like oh but i'm doing
fine the rest of my meals whatever
but i got to the point where i was just
at the coming to the end of the day i
had lots of calories but i was still
starving still so hungry and craving
sugar these are all
of many of the signs of a sugar
addiction or just
getting really you know getting stuck in
that trap of the cycle of sugar
and over time it doesn't help you reach
your fat loss goals if you don't
recognize this behavior and nip it in
the butt because you can end up
overeating
not feeling great oh that was the other
thing my energy levels were
trash my energy levels were trash last
week again i was on my period but
normally i'm not like that on my period
so i feel like
it was most likely the refined sugars i
was sleeping
not good waking up so groggy and
i didn't feel like i was recovering as
well so i'm gonna teach you guys how you
can
squash your sugar addiction but i also
want you to know the science behind this
so that you know what's happening in
your body
i actually did a presentation on this
last september this exact thing cravings
so i'm just playing up my notes from
this presentation because it was great
and it's the same topic um so you guys
what happens when you're eating sugar
refined sugars
sugar of any kind but if you're eating
refined sugar alone
sort of like i was with the cereal in a
large quantity
especially it was my first meal of the
day that's also really important you set
yourself up
for failure when people ask me what
causes sugar cravings
sugar causes sugar cravings so it's this
nasty feedback loop it's a cycle
sugar causes cravings you eat the sugar
and then you have the cravings and it's
you're stuck in this cycle
so when you have sugars your body
releases
a hormone i talk about it a lot on this
channel insulin
insulin is coming into your body it's a
fat storage hormone it's going to enter
the body to try to get all those sugars
you just deposited into the bloodstream
and scoop them away and deposit them in
your energy stores
other areas of your body because it's
energy and if you're not readily using
it or you're not recovering from a
workout
you got to put it somewhere right so
insulin comes clears all that sugar out
of your bloodstream and now you're left
with
really no sugars left in your
bloodstream it can kind of
over withdraw and leave you feeling
really shaky
suddenly you are hungry again even
though you just had 350 calories 400
calories
or a meal and then you go back
to reach for more right because your
body gets so low
in blood sugar it gets shaky and then it
needs sugar to get out of the shaky
state
so you guys can see that vicious cycle
starting of sugar
insulin release and then craving sugar
again to get your blood sugar back up to
normal levels
so this is what i've fallen into it
happens to everyone
the good news is it is not that hard to
break out a cycle
all right you guys so here's how i am
crushing my sugar cravings and getting
breaking this cycle that's been
happening the first step is
it starts with your breakfast if
whatever you eat in the morning is going
to set you up
for how dictates your hunger and
cravings for the rest of the day
so as much as i wanted to get up and
have some loose cashew cereal
i did not do that i got up did my
workouts
and i made sure i had a balanced meal
that did not have a
high sugar hit not a ton of refined or
processed sugars i had
egg whites i had some
i actually had a waffle as my form of
carbs
because the waffle has some fiber in it
and i also had
some lettuce and fiber and vegetables
that with the egg whites
i was able to slow down that uptake of
sugar into the bloodstream that is
tip number one is start that day off
right so that your brain
knows on like a biochemical level your
hormones are in check you're not going
to have crazy amounts of sugar
or insulin coursing through your body
telling you to eat or
you know eat sugar specifically that's
the first thing i've done so already
this morning
it is what time 2 p.m i had it this
morning i've also already had
another pff meal but that is art that's
already set me up for success for the
rest of the day i already feel balanced
i have not had any cravings today for
the first time in
like 14 days which is great you can
really reset it quickly as long as you
are
really keeping yourself accountable with
this first step okay step number two is
to make sure your meals are big enough
so that you're not just snacking
throughout the day
and constantly picking that insulin
level so make sure those meals are
balanced
that is going to slow down the uptake of
sugars into your bloodstream and then
you'll have a less
lessened insulin response and you can do
that by making your meals bigger make
sure it has lots of
dietary fiber okay avocado is a healthy
fat and it has fiber
also chia seeds healthy fat fiber
protein try to eat enough protein get a
high five
high fiber carbohydrate in there and
healthy fats
and that's also going to really help
keep your blood sugar levels stable
and the opposite of a sugar
addiction is stable blood sugar levels
okay a sugar addiction is
your blood sugar levels are like this we
want a flat line
or it's really more like when you look
at the studies like it's like rolling
hills rather than like roller coaster
hills
okay hack number three is not to snack
mindlessly on
carbs alone okay so if you want a snack
that's fine but make it
a balanced snack have protein have fiber
have healthy fats
what does this actually look like in
practice this means not eating a banana
alone
even though a banana is not a refined
sugar and it's a natural sugar and
that's great
if you eat a lot of them alone or one
alone it's going to still have that same
blood sugar and insulin response that
can keep you hungrier for longer
even though you just ate so pair that
banana with
a hard-boiled egg pair it with a
scoop of almond butter or peanut butter
something to slow down the uptake of
those sugars
and in general just not eating your
carbs alone will help a lot
a lot a lot with cravings okay so tip
number four
is to try to ditch the cardio and opt
for weights instead so you guys know i
talk about this all the time
doing a lot of cardio increasing your
your cardio sessions in general can
cause uh crazy cravings they make you
really hungry because you're burning a
ton of calories in a short
period of time and it's not helping your
metabolism to do cardio
but if you lift weights you can build
your metabolism you can burn calories
and you're not going to have as many
cravings if you keep that
that calor that cardio down in a
manageable area
okay my last tip and this is what i
practice
daily this is huge and so important and
not talked about enough
is do not restrict foods do not label
them as good or bad or healthy or
unhealthy
do not cut foods out of your diet i know
that we're talking about reducing
refined sugars and that could sound like
they're contradicting one another but
there is a place
where the lines are a little bit blurred
and you can have your sugars
and not have crazy cravings you'll know
you'll know when you're addicted versus
when you just have it
as a treat and it doesn't affect you to
the extent that it has affected me this
week you will know if you know your body
um you'll know the difference you'll
know when you're just treating yourself
and it's like
it's fine it's not it's not a daily
thing that you're
looked into but when we get into a
mindset that it's all or nothing
no sugar has to be 100 healthy
that's not good right because we need
sugars to survive
carbohydrates which are sugars are the
the
largest area they're the largest form
of energy that we have and that we eat
most of our diet is made up of carbs so
there's no way you're going to be able
to restrict sugars
we're mostly talking about refined
sugars processed sugars
cereals like that you know protein bars
which i also started eating those when i
started eating these it's like all
connected
so try not to restrict still have your
sugar in moderation and here's a super
hack
if you want to have a treat if you want
to have your processed refined sugars
eat them after a pff balanced meal so
that it's a really slow uptake of the
sugars or eat them along with the meal
so that it's balanced
and you have a lessened insulin response
when you have
all that food padded around that sugar
and i just wanted to share
some this was actually from the
presentation i just wanted to share some
things that real petite women that i
work with have said about
following these tips so that you guys
can see that it is
it works and it's also it's it's doable
you can do this i know you can do this
so this is one of my clients rebecca she
said that but i
meal prep last sunday oh my god despite
work being crazy i was
never hungry balancing my meals and
prepping kept me full
this is another example from my client
jenny she said i was
actually fueling my body enough and i no
longer felt hungry all the time for the
first time in a long time i felt like
food didn't control me
i also saw a big change physically so
you guys um i just wanted to bring up
two quick little quotes
nothing crazy so you can see it's really
doable you can do this if you felt like
you
are stuck addicted to sugar i
am right now too so i feel your pain we
can get out of this together
and you can overall reduce your cravings
which will probably help you lose weight
if that's your goal lose fat because you
won't be overeating
and find that healthy balance have more
energy feel
more confident feel like food doesn't
own your life those are all really
really important
metrics in the quality of your life in
general
you guys i hope you enjoyed this video i
will let you know how it goes i'm
already well on my way and i'm sure
that you know i think i'm gonna have to
throw these guys out or
give them to my neighbors or something
i'll let you guys know how it goes
and if you like this video please
subscribe and give it a like
and i also want to let you guys know
that the doors to the petite power
program which is our 12-week
transformation program for petite women
they are open now for only a few days so
if you want to work together if you want
help with your sugar cravings
if you want someone to give you a meal
plan and hold your hand and keep you
accountable
we would love to work with you you can
enroll
below just open for a few days like i
said and i hope to see you guys on the
inside
all right you guys thanks for watching
this video and i'll see you next time
[Music]
bye
you